<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <title>Summa Logica Show/hide</title>
<script src="../Misc/jquery-1.6.2.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
 function hideColumn(nb){
	$("td:nth-child("+nb+")").toggle();
	$("th:nth-child("+nb+")").toggle();
}
</script>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Summa Logica</h1>
<h3>William of Occam</h3>
<input type="button" onclick="hideColumn('1');" style="background:#9C27B0; color:white;" value="show / hide LATIN"/>
<input type="button" onclick="hideColumn('2');" style="background:#9C27B0; color:white;" value="show / hide ENGLISH"/>
<br/><br/>
  <table border="1" cellpadding="10" span="2">
    <colgroup>
      <col valign="top" width="46%"/>

      <col valign="top" width="54%"/>
    </colgroup>

    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>
          Latin
        </th>

        <th>
          English
        </th>
      </tr>
    </thead>

    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <b>Pars I CAP. 1. DE DEFINITIONE TERMINI ET EIUS DIVISIONE IN GENERALI</b>
        </td>
	   <td>
<b>Chapter 1. Of the definition of the term, and of its division in general.</b>
</td>
      </tr>

      <tr>
        <td>
          (i) Omnes logicae tractatores intendunt astruere quod argumenta ex propositionibus et propositiones ex terminis componuntur. Unde terminus aliud non est quam pars propinqua propositionis. Definiens enim terminum Aristoteles, I Priorum, dicit: "Terminum voco in quem resolvitur propositio, ut praedicatum et de quo praedicatur, vel apposito vel diviso esse vel non esse".
        </td>

        <td>
          All those who deal with logic mean to show that arguments are composed from propositions and propositions out of terms. Therefore, a term is nothing other than a neighbouring part of a proposition. For in defining a term Aristotle (<i>Prior Analytics</i> I) says 'I call a 'term', that into which a proposition is analysed, such as a predicate and what it is predicated of, either by putting together to say what is the case (esse), or by separating, to say what is not the case'.
        </td>
      </tr>

      <tr>
        <td>
          (ii) Sed quamvis omnis terminus pars sit propositionis, vel esse possit, non omnes termini tamen eiusdem sunt naturae; et ideo ad perfectam notitiam terminorum habendam oportet aliquas divisiones terminorum praecognoscere.
        </td>

        <td>
          But although every term is, or could be, part of a proposition, yet not all terms are of the same nature, and for that reason, in order to have a complete acquaintance with terms, we must gain a preliminary acquaintance with some of the divisions of terms.
        </td>
      </tr>

      <tr>
        <td>
          (iii) Est autem sciendum quod sicut secundum Boethium, in I Perihermenias, triplex est oratio, scilicet scripta, prolata et concepta, tantum habens esse in intellectu, sic triplex est terminus, scilicet scriptus, prolatus et conceptus.
        </td>

        <td>
          Now it should be known that, according to Boethius on <i><a href="http://www.logicmuseum.com/authors/boethius/boethiusperihermeniascommentary-1.htm">On Interpretation</a></i> I, just as discourse is threefold, namely, written, spoken and conceived ([the last] only having being in the understanding) so the term is threefold, namely, written, spoken and conceived.
        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</body>
</html>